Type git command in git bash to get some common use commands of git bash
1. git status (this is use to check the git status in that directory wheather it is modified,untraked, renamed and all like that)
2. git init (this is used to insert a git file in the pwd if you want to use git in any directory then firstly add git file in that)
3. touch .gitignore (this is used to create a .gitignore file in that file you can add the file name which want to ignore and if you want to ignore all the files of same extention then enter the entention in that file like this *.txt this will ignore all the .txt files in that directory) 
4. git log (this will show up all the commit of that directory)
5. git diff
6. pwd (this is the present working directory)
7. git add . 
8. git commit -m "" (to make a commit,any time you use git add . you should use this also)
9. mv "file you want to change its name" "what you want to set its name" (to change the file name using git bash)
10. rm "file name" (delete the file)
11. git checkout -- file name (this is used to backup a single file but remember that you can backup with the last commit in the case when you don't commit the file which you want to backup)
12. git checkout -f (this used to backup all the files again from the last commit)
13. git config -- global alias.'what you want to be its name in shortcut' 'the command name' (this command is used to simply speeding the use of git or reducing the time to write same command again and again. this is just to make a shortcut)
14. git checkout -b develop (this command is used to create a new branch you can make multiple branches by changing there name in place of develop in this case)
15. git checkout master (this command is used to move to master branch from develop branch)
16. git checkout develop (this command is used when you have already created the develop branch and want to switch to develop barnch from master)
17. git branch (this will show all the branches)
18. git merge develop (this command is use to merge branches develop here is the current example branch)
19. rm -rf .git (this command will delete the git folder)
20. git clone <url of the github repository which you want to import in the folder> (this command is use to import a github repository to your laptop)
21. git checkout <commit id> (this command is used to checkout any previous commit)
 



For Github Related:-
1. git remote(remote here means a repository which is on the web)
2. git remote add origin https://github.com/pranavgupta701/GitTutorial.git
3. git remote(enter this again to see your website name in this case it will come origin because we have written origin above but you can name any other in upper line of "git remote add origin"if you want but it is good if you simply name it as origin as it is default)
4. git remote -v 
5. git push -u origin master
(after running this command if it shows that you don't have access to push then you need to generate a ssh key)


[[[[[How to generate ssh key:-
To generate ssh key 
* Now open a new tab on chrome and write ssh keys github, click on the first link or enter this url on chrome "https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent" then scroll down and find "Generating a new ssh key" and copy 1st command in 2nd line and paste it in the git bash and press enter again till complete.
* Run this eval "$(ssh-agent -s)" in git bash (to run your ssh agent)
* Run  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa in git bash
* Now scroll down at the bottom of the page and click "Add ssh key to your github account"
* Now run "tail ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub" command on git bash and a key will be shown which will be so big so copy that full key and paste that on the setting then SSH and GPG keys then New SSH Key then Key text box]]]]]


6. Now after generating the ssh key again run "git push -u origin master" command.
7. After that once you update any file which you have published on web will be updated by running "git push" command after the commit.


